Now let's see how we can protect certain routes from being accessible to everyone.
So we have seen previously that we can attach the middle were to certain routes and we can also attach
the guest middle where to force that those routes can be accessible by everyone.
So the first way to attach this off middle middleware to require authentication on a specific route
would be inside our route definition file namely inside web BHP or the API BHP.
If you are developing an API but we are into it.
So you can just change another method call at the end of the route definition and add middleware.
So if we will are done me meter were for this home controller home page which is what you see on the
right.
Save the changes here.
And now let's refresh the page on the right.
So you can see that I wasn't authenticated because there my name wasn't displayed.
And now if I go to the contact page I can still see it.
But if I go to the home page I am being redirected to the logging forum.
Of course this doesn't make sense to protect this route but it is just an example of how you can do
it.
So that's the first way.
So let's maybe we can move that to the next line so you will know how to do that and save the save it
and keep it.
And now if you are using controllers and we are using controllers so this way I show you shown you before
can work.
Also if you are defining your routes as closures and basically that's the only way if you are using
closures but if you are using controllers we might do that inside post controller.
This would make much more sense to protect certain routes inside it.
You can define a typical PDB constructor using underscore a construct.
Of course we need to function keyword here
and now inside the controller constructor we can call this middleware.
So this would protect every single route from this post controller.
So now if I will go to the blog posts I am required to be authenticated.
So I am being redirected to the logging page the same with adding.
So nothing really is accessible to me right now or of course if I will log in you can see that I can
see both the form for adding and the blog posts and editing everything works for me.
Now let's see how we can do that.
If we only want to protect certain routes.
So for this I've said that before.
But let's remind ourselves we can use either only or accept methods so only can accept string.
So.
Well it's up to you how do you like to define this.
But we can use only with an array and specify the method names that we would like to protect.
So we want to protect the index because we probably would like everyone to read our blog posts the same
with show but certainly we do not want to let anyone add blog posts if there are not authenticated.
So let's out create first save the changes.
And now let's see we can read blog posts.
A single one and the list of them.
But when you press hard you can't see the form.
Obviously that's not everything.
We should also protect store added update and destroy so let's at that store.
Edit Update
destroy.
So now all those routes are protected if you will go to the blog post list and Press Edit you can see
that you are being redirected the same with delete.
You can't do that.
You can only view blog posts so that's a pretty simple way you can also do that when we will later implements
come implement commenting.
But this is the second way.
And for me it is the preferred way to decide how to protect certain routes inside.
Controllers
so let's save the changes and then we will see how we can actually attach users to certain models.
So when someone is being out integrated he is being assigned to a certain blog post so we can see who
altered our certain blog post.